libertarianism is a fringe
ideology it is not presented
as an important philosophy or an
important
school of economic thought in the
universities of europe
it is certainly not considered important
in japan or china
or africa or south america
libertarianism
is a fringe ideology that's very
influential
in the united states of america because
it has had the patronage and support
of some very wealthy and very
influential people
in the united states of america and in
the united states of america
only in the past few decades
alan greenspan very important example
most infamously perhaps the koch
brothers now
it is rare that i would attribute any
shift in public political attitudes
to a book let's admit it in the 21st
century
not a lot of people read books perhaps
in the sphere of
political discourse especially our views
are much more likely to be shaped by
things we see on television things we
hear on the radio or
even information that we learn here on
youtube
however bernie sanders had a hit book
that sold
millions and millions of copies and in
that book
there is a chapter advancing the
narrative
that the koch brothers are part of a
top-down conspiracy
to transform the united states of
america and it characterizes
the koch brothers methods goals and
political positions
with a selective reading of the earliest
extant
sources of what their political views
were a lot of that evidence came from
the 1980
elections that the koch brothers
participated in
well 1980 was a long time ago
and it's also i mean understandably this
is the bernie sanders perspective on the
koch brothers it's not going to be a
balanced view of who the koch brothers
are what they want to accomplish what
their political aspirations are
no it's pretty much a hatchet job and
let's face it guys
nobody judges bernie sanders by the
political convictions
he had in the year 1980s so it's not
really fair to judge the koch brothers
with a selective reading of their
political statements
from 1980. nevertheless in this book
bernie sanders put forward this sort of
powerful
new view of the significance of the koch
brothers in american politics
and thus of libertarianism in american
politics
as being this fringe ideology backed
by billions of dollars and while it is
true that the koch brothers have spent
millions
and billions of dollars trying to
influence american politics
it's somewhat amusing to me that this
conspiracy theory narrative
has developed with so little interest
in understanding what the political
agenda of the koch brothers
actually is what you're looking at on
screen now
believe it or not is the front page of
the koch brothers
maine charity their umbrella charity
stand together quote the tragic
and unnecessary deaths of george floyd
ahmed arbore
brianna taylor and too many others
demonstrate that our country has a long
way to go to live up to our ideal of
equal justice under the law
are you starting to get the feeling that
maybe bernie sanders
didn't tell you the whole story about
who david coke
really was or what the koch brothers
political agenda
really means for the future the united
states of america started to get the
feeling that maybe
what bernie sanders wrote and what a lot
of left-wing people
influenced by bernie sanders have been
writing
showed a lack of sincere interest
in the evidence at hand i i continue
quote
we believe every person should be
treated equally based on their
individual conduct
regardless of the color of their skin or
the uniform they wear
we believe there are government
officials who dutifully honor their
sacred oaths of office
but there are also those who do not that
includes police officers prosecutors
judges corrections officers and other
officials
throughout the criminal justice system
some of you in the audience
will be leaping forward to complain that
this is just a smoke screen
that this is just like an illusion of
left-wing
or liberal values that are up on the
website of the koch brothers
main charity to distract you from their
secret
right-wing agenda or their dark
libertarian designs on the future
of democracy in america no
david coke his whole life long
described himself as a social liberal
but an economic conservative one simple
example
that really would have meant a lot
within his own
family and within the social milieu he
chose to
live his life in of multi-millionaires
most of whom support the republican
party
keep in mind david coke supported
gay marriage bill clinton
did not support gay marriage bill
clinton did not even support
equal rights for homosexuals in the
military
on many many issues david
koch would have seemed wing
compared to his own father compared to
his own family members
and compared to the company he would
keep including yes when he was a star
basketball player at mit if you look
into the guy's life a little bit you
start to see him
as a human being and yes his political
views
did change dramatically in 1991
when he just barely survived an airplane
crash and he apparently witnessed many
other people
burning to death in this self-same
airplane crash
so if you're going to pick and choose
evidence from the year 1980
that really might not be representative
of who he was
what his political agenda was in all the
years since
1991. now i am not a libertarian
i don't even sympathize with
libertarians
i think their political philosophy is
childish and stupid and dumb and i have
had many debates
with libertarians that just left me
laughing at how they couldn't solve
the simplest everyday problems in
political science
and i've had them explain to me how they
really think the world would be a better
place
if taxpayers did not pay
for sewage systems and like you ask them
okay how are people gonna have clean
drinking water if you don't have
taxation and a government and coercion
that actually prevents water pollution
you know like you take away the sewage
treatment plant and you take away the
whole apparatus of the state that
includes both taxation and
you know regulation and yes coercion
enforcement of the laws
how do people get clean drinking water
you know and their answers are just
laughably stupid and childish and wrong
i had one debate with a guy who's you
know both a libertarian and an
anarcho-capitalist out on that end of
the spectrum and
i said to him look if you sincerely
believe
that the world would be a better place
if the government
did not put any money into education
whatsoever there's no role for the
taxpayer there's no role for the state
in education then explain to me how you
would improve the lives of people
right now on an ojibwe reservation
on a navajo reservation on a cree
reservation
indigenous people in north america how
would you improve their lives
by shutting down all the schools taking
away all the government funding
and leaving them with no access to
education whatsoever can we talk that
through step by step
and their answers are just childishly
laughably stupid it's an outrageously
dumb philosophy nevertheless
i do not sympathize with fear
about libertarianism i do not sympathize
with bernie sanders
lying about who the koch brothers are
and constructing this narrative
and i have no sympathy at all for people
like nancy mclean
who've really taken the next step in
trying to make libertarianism into this
bogeyman
into this specter that is haunting
american democracy yes i do think
there's a reason
why nobody in europe nobody in japan and
nobody in china
takes libertarianism seriously
libertarianism and anarcho-capitalism
do not deserve to be taken seriously as
political philosophies or as approaches
to economics
and it just so happens that a handful of
influential people
like the koch brothers and like alan
greenspan have
made this a significant talking point in
american politics in the 21st century
but hey this too will pass
long story short the political
significance of the koch brothers is not
what it appears to be
and therefore you should find it
completely unsurprising
that i'm now going to reveal my
hypothesis
that the political significance of the
rise and fall
of stefan molyneux also is not
what it appears to be stefan molyneux
really is racist
the koch brothers are not
libertarianism per se is not
even anne rand herself was
vocally anti-racist specifically in
dealing with the distinction between
black and white in the united states of
america
the only way to abolish racism
private racism is by advocating
individualism
and its corollary every society
in a pre-society the white man's
own rational self-interest would
abolish racism and those who
are irrational those who insist
on running their business or their lives
by racial prejudice
would be their own victims they should
be boycotted
by rational men and they should be
ostracized
as that is those who are not racist
should refuse to deal with those who are
guilty of racial prejudice
i'll just say that again i i don't
support anne rand in any way
her philosophy is laughable to me
nevertheless ann rand was a
vocal anti-racist
when you know that it's less surprising
to see
so many statements on the front page of
the koch brothers charity it's
quite appealing to left-wing people
today and centrist today in addressing
the politics of the year 2020
but stefan molineux really is racist
that always was his agenda
over years and years from the dawn
of his youtube channel there is a
youtube channel
called tulia cicero that has done a very
good job
of editing together the clips that will
show you in just a few minutes
just how racist stefan molyneux is and
just how committed
he has been to the pursuit of his racist
hypotheses
over many years and if you don't go to
this other youtube channel italia cicero
you would have to watch hours and hours
of this guy lecturing
to piece together what his racist
political agenda
really is i can't say to you
that no libertarians are racist
what i can say to you is that there's a
deep
distinction between people who are
sincerely
libertarian and people who are using
the libertarian ideology as a
smokescreen
for something else quite often racism
but sometimes also it may just be the
convenience of a particular
upcoming republican election there may
be some other
political agenda there sometimes
particular examples
are more important than general
principles
the example of school voucher programs
is much more important than the general
principles of libertarianism
to understand the distinction i'm
alluding to here between sincere and
insincere libertarians
in the united states of america some
libertarians
support school voucher programs because
they really
sincerely believe in expanding the role
of the free market
in education and reducing the role and
responsibility of government education
but guess what in historical reality
in practice a lot of the energy a lot of
the
interest in supporting a transition to
school voucher programs
came out of white racist parents
who did not want their children in the
same classroom
with black americans so the school
voucher program
was a kind of smoke screen for
segregation for continuing to separate
the rich from the poor the white from
the black
it was part of a struggle against the
federal government
encroaching on state and local officials
and trying to force them to desegregate
schools to integrate the black and the
white the rich and the poor
in one of the same classroom so that was
a way for those people
with that racist and elitist agenda to
fight back
against the federal government that just
happened to coincide
with and overlap with libertarianism
the rise and fall of stefan molyneux
shows that there are people so deeply
committed
to the racist white supremacist agenda
that they will play a long con like this
for
years they will espouse libertarian
principles
they do not remotely believe in
completely
insincerely act out a pantomime of being
a libertarian or anarcho-capitalist
just to gradually draw people in
to their fundamentally racist and
fundamentally
authoritarian right-wing world view
i mean really people like to disrespect
my crew but the fact is that you know my
name and i don't know
you